- [Instructor] So the GEE provides you
a lot of listener interfaces that you
can create classes out of.
Some of them are listed on this slide.
You have the ServletContextListener,
which is going to be responsible for the
deployment and undeployment event software application.
So basically, if you write a clause which implements
the ServletContextListener, it means that
you will be able to capture the events
of deployment and undeployment in your application.
On the same lines, there is ServletContextAttributeListener.
So if you really add or remove or replace attributes
in the ServletContextObject,
you have this listener to trap those events.
HTTPSessionListener is dedicated for the HTTPSessionObject.
So when this session gets created or destroyed,
that's the point where you can trap those events
using this Listener Interface.
And as for HTTPSessionAttributeListener,
it means if you're trying to add, remove, or replace
attributes inside the HTTPSessionObject,
then you have this listener at your disposal
to trap those events.
ServletRequestAttributeListener and ServletRequestListener,
they are the ones that are dedicated
for the Servlet Request.
So if you have a request processing that is starting,
you can use ServletRequestListener to trap that event.
And if you are trying to add, remove, or replace attributes,
then you have the ServletRequestAttributeListener.
Then you also have HTTPSessionBindingListener.
So as we talked about in the previous video,
that if you have an object binding itself
or unbinding itself from the session,
then you can trap those events,
and that's the Listener Interface
which you'll take help from.
In addition to this, there's also
HTTPSessionActivationListener. which is basically
responsible for the session migration event.
Now let's go ahead and try out the code demo
for the listeners in our application.
So the first step is to write out a listener class
which implements the javax.servlet.ServletContextListener
interface and will generate the pair of methods.
So the idea that we're trying to do on this demo is,
we are going to write a listener which will implement
the ServletContextListener interface.
Now this is the one which will help you to trap the events
of deployment and undeployment in your application.
And whenever the application is going to get deployed,
we are going to basically set up
the connection object to the database.
That's the idea, right?
So let's go to the code.
And I have a folder of listeners on my machine
on the project, and I'm going to create a class here,
which is, let's say, called the ApplicationListener.
And I'm going to make this class implement
the ServletContextListener.
That's the one.
Now it is implements, so I'll have to add
the unimplemented methods.
Let's quickly do that.
So you get a pair of methods generated.
One is contextDestroyed, the other's contextInitialized.
So whenever you deploy your application,
that's the point when the contextInitialized method
will get executed automatically.
And whenever you undeploy, then ContextDestroyed
is the method that will get invoked.
Okay, so now, the next step is to obtain
the DB connection object in the contextInitialized method.
That's correct because whenever your application deploys,
we know that this is going to get invoked.
So let's go ahead and write out a code
for establishing the connection object to database.
But before that, just take a look at the parameters
for the methods.
This is ServletContextEvent object,
which is a parameter.
So basically, the events and event listeners,
they are bundled up into the same package.
So whenever you have a listener,
you will have the associated event object for it
so that you can retrieve any information
with respect to the event if you wish to in the code.
So now let's go ahead under the contextInitialized method,
and the first thing is, let me just put a small instance
out on line 16.
I'm just going say, I am in contextInitialized method.
Similarly, I just copy this line, line number 16,
and I'll paste on line number 10.
And I'm just going to change the method name.
So this is like an activity tracer I want to do.
Okay, so let's go to contextInitialized,
and I'm going to set up the DB connection.
It's going to be rather simple.
We just have to take the reference of connection,
and we have to consult our DB connection class,
and invoke the method of connection to database.
That's all that we have to do, really,
because in that code of setting of the connection,
is already done in the DB connection class.
Now, we need to store that connection object
in the ServletContext as an attribute.
So what this means is, this connection
that you're setting up, should be available
to your servlets of the application
because the other ones from the
other request processing logic begins.
So I need to share this object now,
and one way of sharing the object across the servlets
of our application is your ServletContext object.
So let's do one thing.
We should be able to get the ServletContext
on the Event object,
so on line number 22, I'm just going to go ahead
and say, getServletContext,
which will get me the ServletContext object,
and on that, I can say, setAttribute,
and label this object with this dbconnection key,
and the actual value for this will be the connection object.
That's right.
So we are done, we have established a connection,
and we have set it as an attribute
under the ServletContext.
Now let's go ahead and also give an implementation
to the Destroyed methods.
So what we are going to do here is essentially
get this connection and then just close it
so it wants a part of the cleanup activity
that you would want to do.
So let's go ahead and say, connection,
take a reference, and on the Event object again,
get the ServletContext, and this time,
you want to call getAttribute,
because I want to get that connection.
So the key is dbconnection.
That's what this is.
And this is, of course, going to return you
something of the object type,
so you need to cast it to the connection type.
So once we are done with that,
you can just come here and say connection.close,
that's all.
Now this line could possible throw you an SQL exception,
so we have to surround it with a try catch.
So that's about the listener.
The next step will be to configure the listener
in the deployment descriptor.
So let's go ahead and open up the webxml file.
Configuring a listener inside webxml is pretty simple.
You just have to go there.
I'm on line number 59 right now,
and there's an element in the webxml,
which is called listener.
And under that, there's a child element, listener class,
which will take the fully qualified class name
of that listener, so it is com.test.listeners.
Let me copy that from line number one, go to webxml,
and quickly paste it here along with the class name.
That's all.
If, however, you want to go the annotation way
of configuration, then you can do one thing
on line number 10, oh, it's on line number 11
for that matter.
Basically on the top of the class,
you just need to annotate this with the
web listener annotation, that's all.
Of course, you have to use either the xml old annotations.
I'm going to get rid of this right now,
and let's go ahead and do one last thing.
We have configured the listener.
Now you need to get the DB connection
in any of the servlets using the ServletContext object
instead of setting up directly in the DAO layer.
What this means is, now we have done the job
of setting up the connection inside the listener.
Now let's open one of our servlets,
let's say the search servlet.
And in the servlet, we know that we're giving a call
to the ApplicationDao, and on line number 30,
it calls the searchProducts method.
Now inside the searchProducts method,
on line number 21, that's the place
you're setting up the connection.
So instead of that, we are not going to set up
the connection in the ApplicationDao at all.
So let me get rid of this line,
and let's do one more thing.
Let me add one more parameter to this method
on line number 16, which is of the connection type.
So what we are essentially going to do is,
that whenever we come in the servlet,
from there itself, you're going to pass this connection
as an argument when we call the searchProducts method.
So let's come back to search servlet, and here,
on line number 27, I'm now going to go ahead
and get the connection from the ServletContext.
I need not write that line again,
it's already there in the contextDestroyed
on line number 16 in my listener class.
So I just have to copy that, come to search servlet,
and paste it on line number 27.
So once that's done, I'm now going to modify this call
and add that connection as one more parameter.
That's all, right?
You don't need the arg0 object,
you just need to say, getServletContext
or getAttribute, and of course it is going
to return me something of the object type,
so I'm casting it to connection,
and I'm going to paste that connection as an argument,
which is the other argument now,
to the searchProducts method, right?
So we are done now.
Let's now run this project and check the changes.
So now if you observe the console,
do you see that, when the application was getting deployed,
that's the activity trace on the console view,
and it put me the sysout in contextInitialized,
so that's what happened.
When you deployed the application,
the event got triggered,
and the listener against it got executed automatically.
So that's the sysout that's going to be picked up
from the contextInitialized method.
As for the two sysouts that you see after that,
they are coming from the DB connection class,
which was setting up the connection object for you, right?
So that's what it is.
Now let's do one more thing.
Let's go to our application, and run this application
for the search use case, because we made modifications
to that method, so I'm going to click there,
and enter the search criteria, protein.
Let's see, and click on the search button,
and yeah, we are still getting the products
from the database, so the database object is
set up correctly.
Now we have picked that connection object
from the listener.
So that's what you can do.
This is efficient resource management
that you can set up with the listeners.